Please ensure that you have read these rules before submitting to the challenge. By submitting to the challenge, you agree to fully comply with these rules.
Goal of the Challenge
The GENEA Challenge 2026 seeks to advance scientific knowledge relating to automatic gesture generation, by means of open science and large-scale, best-practices human evaluations. It is not a competition, and the point is not to find who does best, but what works best. The rules of the challenge have been designed with the intent of best furthering this goal.
Data and materials
Training data and pre-trained models
You may only use data and pre-trained model weights that are open and non-proprietary (or that will become open and non-proprietary upon publication) to create submissions to the challenge. For this challenge, open and non-proprietary means:
Publicly available and findable.
Released under an open license that permits research use (including academic research as well as research performed by/at companies).

If you use machine-learning models, e.g., foundation models, to initialise and/or train your system, these models must be open and non-proprietary as well. This requirement for example includes machine-learning models of text, audio, and/or 2D/3D motion. You may still use proprietary components in your data processing pipeline if the data resulting from that processing is released as open and non-proprietary data.
Data processing and model training that integrate trained machine-learning models available through publicly available APIs, including paid APIs like ChatGPT, is permitted, both at training time and at synthesis time. However, you must publicly disclose the date(s) you queried these APIs and the prompts you used for doing so, for example in your system description and its appendices.
Note that we do not require that you release the weights of your gesture-generation model we evaluate on the challenge. If you would like to be evaluated on the challenge even though you cannot be fully compliant with the requirements on open and non-proprietary data and models, please contact us. 
You must not train your system on:
Any data from the Seamless Interaction test or validation sets, since the Seamless Interaction dataset is used for evaluating challenge entries.
Any data derived from the Seamless Interaction test or validation sets. This includes, e.g., augmented versions of the data in question, or output from any model trained on that data.

As a remark, you are not required to train your system on any Seamless Interaction training data.

It is your responsibility to respect the licences of data and models you use, and to give proper attribution (including citations) to any datasets and models you have used to build your system.
Synthesising motion for the test set
Synthetic gesture motion must be submitted in the same format as that used by the challenge dataset (SMPL-H, same frame-rate, etc.). The organisers take no responsibility for any effects that may occur if the submitted motion is not in the correct format.
Systems that require a motion input at synthesis time to produce output motion, such as few-shot systems with motion “prompting”, or variational autoencoders, may only use training data as synthesis-time input.
Since the idea is to evaluate how systems would perform in an unattended setting, manually tweaking the test inputs or the generated output motion is not allowed. For systems with stochastic output, it is similarly not permitted to manually cherry pick which random samples are submitted for evaluation. Only automated processing is permitted at synthesis time.
Non-deterministic systems, i.e., ones that use random-number generators to produce different output motion for the same input speech, must submit five random samples for each speech file in the test set.
Retention and distribution of submitted materials
All motion and other materials (e.g., form responses and system-description documents) that you submit to the challenge may be publicly released by the organisers. You retain ownership and still have the right to do whatever you like with your data and your documents.
By submitting motion and other materials to the challenge, you agree to the following terms and conditions:
You certify that you have all rights and permissions necessary to submit these materials and to grant the rights described below, and that the rights granted do not conflict with any other agreement to which you are bound.
For submitted motion and form responses, you grant us a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free, transferable license to distribute these materials under a CC-BY-NC license, labelled as coming from your system. The same goes for any system-description documents that are not already permanently publicly available through the arXiv and/or open-access publishing.
You agree not to seek indemnity or other recovery from us for any claims, losses, liabilities, costs, or expenses arising out of use of the data consistent with the license granted above. The same applies to third‑party claims related to permitted use of the data, except for claims resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct on our part.

How to participate
Documentation and reproducibility
Since the GENEA Challenge seeks to advance scientific knowledge, we place substantial emphasis on reproducibility. To submit to the challenge, you must complete a form with accurate information about the general technical specification of your system and various meta-information, to facilitate easy cross-system comparisons. This will include a clear specification of which resources and datasets were used, as well as architecture and training hyperparameters. We also require a future-proof email address so that we can obtain complementary information about your submission if necessary.
To participate in the challenge with a new gesture-generation system, you may either submit it as an 8-page ECCV workshop paper, or as a 4-page non-archival technical report (allowing you to publish your results elsewhere). Your paper, preprint, or technical report must contain enough detail to allow replication. To participate in the challenge with a previously published system, you will have to submit a 1-page non-archival extended abstract describing changes made to a published model.
If your paper or preprint is not sufficiently detailed to permit replication, you may not be able to participate in the challenge without providing complementary information, either by updating your paper, or through a brief supplementary pdf that simply lists the necessary information missing from the paper.
Limits on participation
We want the challenge to provide as good a service to the community as possible, but we have limited resources, and being evaluated in the challenge is a privilege, not a right. In addition to not evaluating submissions that do not fulfill the above documentation requirements, we reserve the right to filter out submissions that are clearly below the state-of-the-art.
We typically only evaluate and place on the challenge the final proposed system (i.e., no ablations or other system variants) from either an existing publication or an intended publication (work of yours that is yet to be accepted). If you have good reasons why the challenge should make an exception in your case, please reach out to us.
Anonymity and identification
Challenge submissions will be placed on the GENEA Leaderboard (which is expanding to include a leaderboard for systems evaluated on the Seamless Interaction dataset), allowing other gesture-generation systems to compare to your motion in the future. Team names, members, and affiliations will be publicly visible through that leaderboard together with the motion you submitted, your system description, and subjective and objective evaluation results. You agree that once we have evaluated your submission, the results are ours to share and you cannot make us hide, change, or anonymise them.

Final words
How are these rules enforced?
The challenge is designed to advance scientific knowledge, and is not a competition. The point is not to find who does best, but what works best. Therefore, we depend on your honesty in preparing your entry.
If issues with rules compliance are uncovered with submissions to the challenge, a publicly visible note describing the issues may be added to your submission. Blatant rules violations and behaviour that goes against the spirit of the challenge – for example training on the test data, deliberately misleading system descriptions, or scientific fraud – may result in team members being blacklisted from submitting to the challenge.

